Okay, so welcome back, and in this video section, or this
series of videos we're gonna learn how to do two things.
One, mess things up,
cause a bit of havoc,
break things.
So be careful, and the second part will be how to kind of do
some simple health checking on the machine.
So to start off we're going to be looking at deleting files.
Now,
you may not want to,
you may not feel comfortable
to do all your kind of
file deletion on the command line.
But I'm showing you firstly to show you how
to do it, so that you know
it exists, but also to show you how to do forced deletes
and delete files that you don't really have permission to
delete, but also if you get to the point where
you're connecting to remote machines, some kinda web server
you'll need to know how to use these commands anyway.
So, to delete a file,
we need to rm.
rm is short for remove.
So rm, and then the name of the file.
So, we're in my home directory
We've got a couple of, we've got the demo file that I made
in the previous video for grepping, so to remove that file
we do rm demo.
Okay, pretty simple and it's gone. There's no prompting,
there's no asking, it belonged to me, and
that file is now gone.
It's not in my recycle bin, it is permanently gone.
There are possibly tools out there that can recover the
file, but from a UI perspective, from the GUI,
the Mac's GUI, I can't recover it.
So the files now gone, I don't know what the contents of it
is anymore, I can't get back to it.
So that's done, it's pretty,
well, I mean, I own that file
so really I ran the command, so you know I should've kinda
known what I was doing, that's why there was no prompting.
Now if I try and
delete,
I can, well, let me see.
We can go into directories and we're just gonna quickly make
a directory, "mkdir foo",
so "make directory" mk is short for
make directory foo, and to remove that directory,
we look, we've got a directory here, I do rmdir foo.
So remove directory, if I try and just,
before I do that
if I just do rm foo, it just says it's a directory,
can't do that.
And if I try and make a whole bunch of files, if I quickly
make some files, I can delete more than one file at once.
I'm gonna use touch command, touch will basically just
create an empty file, and I'm just gonna create
a bunch of files.
So this should be, yeah lots of files, they're empty files,
nothing in them, and I just used a little command, "touch"
will make the file and these braces mean, it just allows me
to do more than one at a time.
So I'm gonna do "rm 1 2 3", and they're all gone.
So do multiple files at once,
but I can't remove this directory.
But I can do "rmdir foo",
and it goes, and it doesn't prompt because I own it again
and the directory has gone.
There we go, it's just completely empty.
So, I'm just using "open" for Finder, obviously a Mac
specific thing, that's this demo-folder right here, and I'm
gonna go ahead and back up to the parent directory,
and I'm gonna try and remove the demo-folder.
So, "rmdir demo-folder/",
and typically we would expect it
to be removed as well,
oh actually let's stick a file in there,
so "touch demo-folder/1", so there's
now a file inside of there, demo-folder.
I think the Finder is still there, no it's not.
If we try and remove that directory,
"rmdir demo-folder",
it says it's not empty, so it doesn't want to go ahead and
get rid of it until we get rid of the file, so let's just
quickly get rid of that file, okay so that's gone.
Have a quick look inside, looks empty, try to remove the
folder, and it's not empty still.
The reason it's not empty is there is actually a hidden file
in there, and if you use a Mac, you
might've seen these .ds_store files.
Now when we looked in the directory we didn't see it.
If we try and open the directory, we can't see it, unless
you have a special flag turned on,
but if we do "ls -ltr",
which is my favourite way of listing directories, if I do,
I think it's "a", "demo-folder/",
"a" means show all files,
including hidden files.
And there it is, that .DS_Store file, they get everywhere.
It's like cat-fur under the sofa.
So, we have a choice here, we can manually go ahead and
delete each one of these files, or the .DS_Store file.
So maybe inside of that demo folder we had a whole bunch of
other files, "1, 2, 3" in there,
maybe we had another
sub-directory inside of there, and really we're feeling
a bit lazy, we don't wanna delete every individual file, and
the hidden file, what we can do is do a forced delete.
So we can do "rm demo-folder/",
that will fail but if we do "rm -rf",
that's a recursive forced delete, so what that
will do is it'll delete the demo folder,
it will go into the demo folder and
recursively go through every single file and
every directory that's in there, and force delete it, and
then delete the demo directory.
So if we run that now, gone.
Okay.
Vanished.
Where is it, so it's completely gone, so that's a forced
delete, and again notice it doesn't prompt me to
ask if I'm sure I wanna do that.
Now, you need to be careful with this kind of command,
because "rm -rf" can get you into a little bit of trouble
because it is so much like a sledgehammer
to a nail.
I tweeted a couple of years ago now, "rm -rf ~"
and if you remember from the earlier chapters, tilde means
the home directory, so you could actually
blow away your entire home directory, and I've been in a
situation with perfectly competent colleagues accidentally
deleting core directories and realising
they've got that rf command and it just
gets rid of everything, and it doesn't
ask it just goes as fast as it can.
So be careful with that, use it sparingly,
but you can use it to get rid of directories that have
files inside them and you can't be bothered to do
every one individually.
Equally if you happen to have the terminal handy, you know
use the terminal if you feel safe, sorry, Finder handy, use
Finder if you feel safer doing that.
What I'm going to show you next is "What about files that
you don't have permission to delete?".